				GNSS-TEC
                                              Last updated January 3, 2016

INTRODUCTION

The GNSS-TEC program mainly derives the total electron content (TEC) in iono-
sphere for each epoch and satellite at the specified ground-based receiver by
retrieving the dual-frequency observables of code and carrier phase from the
global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including GPS, GLONASS (GLO),
Galileo (GAL) and Beidou/Compass (BDS).  It returns both of the slant and
vertical TEC, the corresponding elevation angle of each satellite, and the
longitude/latitude at the ionospheric points.

The scripts have been tested with GNU Octave 4.0.0 on Linux.  They may be com-
patible with Octave in Mac and DOS but not tested yet.  Besides, they may be
compatible with Matlab(R) but not tested yet, either.  For Octave and Matlab(R)
users, the mapping toolbox may need to be pre-installed for estimating the
differential code biases (DCBs) of stations and/or satellites.

Some scripts need to call program 'teqc' in order to edit the OBS files.  The
program can be downloaded at

 http://facility.unavco.org/software/teqc/teqc.html#executables

The complete set of the program includes:

 ChangeLog		Update information
 README			This file
 ambiguity.m		Solve ambiguity for GPS
 ambiguity_c.m		Solve ambiguity for BDS
 ambiguity_e.m		Solve ambiguity for Galileo
 ambiguity_r.m		Solve ambiguity for GLONASS
 bdstec.m		BDS-TEC data processor
 bdstec_sh.m		BDS-TEC data processor (with shebang)
 checkvar.m		Check if MAT-file contains specified variable
 crx2rnx.m		Convert daily compact RINEX OBS files into RINEX files
 dcb2mat.m		Convert DCB file into MAT-file
 doy2gps.m		Convert day of year into GPS week and day of the week
 doy2ymd.m		Convert day of year into month and day of the month
 ecef2lla.m		Convert ECEF cartesian coordinates into lat/lon/alt
 elevation.m		Calculate elevation angle of GPS satellites
 elevation_c.m		Calculate elevation angle of BDS satellites
 elevation_e.m		Calculate elevation angle of Galileo satellites
 elevation_r.m		Calculate elevation angle of GLONASS satellites
 galtec.m		Galileo-TEC data processor
 galtec_sh.m		Galileo-TEC data processor (with shebang)
 Get_coef.m		Estimate coefficients of spherical harmonic function
 Get_IPP.m		Estimate the location of the ionospheric points
 getalldcb.m		Estimate DCB of GPS receiver and satellites
 getalldcb_c.m		Estimate DCB of BDS receiver and satellites
 getrecdcb.m		Estimate DCB of GPS receiver
 getrecdcb_e.m		Estimate DCB of Galileo receiver
 getrecdcb_r.m		Estimate DCB of GLONASS receiver
 glotec.m		GLONASS-TEC data processor
 glotec_sh.m		GLONASS-TEC data processor (with shebang)
 gps2ymd.m		Convert GPS week into year, month, day
 gps2doy.m		Convert GPS week into day of year
 gpstec.m		GPS-TEC data processor
 gpstec_sh.m		GPS-TEC data processor (with shebang)
 Hmatrix.m		Generate the design matrix for spherical harmonics for
			GNSS
 Hmatrix_m.m		Generate the design matrix for spherical harmonics for
			GPS and BDS
 hrcrx2rnx.m		Convert high-rate zipped compact RINEX OBS files into
			RINEX files
 ionpt.m		Estimate location of the ionospheric points for GPS
 ionpt_c.m		Estimate location of the ionospheric points for BDS 
 ionpt_e.m		Estimate location of the ionospheric points for Galileo
 ionpt_r.m		Estimate location of the ionospheric points for GLONASS
 nav2mat.m		Convert a RINEX NAV file into a MAT-file for GLONASS
 normP.m		Normalization function of Legendre polynomials
 obs2mat.m		Convert OBS file into MAT-file for GPS
 obs2mat_m.m		Convert OBS file into MAT-file for GLONASS, Galileo,
			and BDS
 putintv.m		Insert sampling interval into RINEX file
 readbia.m		Read BIA file and retrieve DCB values for Galileo
 readcrd.m		Read CRD file and retrieve coordinate information
 rinex_rename.m		Change new RINEX filename parameters to original format
 skipcheck.m		Check problem stations
 slant.m		Slant function
 slant2.m		Slant function 2
 smooth.m		Smooth data with running mean
 sp32mat.m		Convert an SP3 file to a MAT-file for GPS and GLONASS
 sp32mat_c.m		Convert an SP3 file to a MAT-file for Galileo and QZSS
 sp32mat_e.m		Convert an SP3 file to a MAT-file for Galileo and QZSS
 sp3cubic.m		Apply cubic interpolation on SP3 data
 vtec.m			Calculate vertical TEC
 ymd2doy.m		Convert year, month and day to day of the year
 ymd2gps.m		Convert year, month and day to GPS week and day of the
			week
 CODE.CRD		ITRF coordinates of the ground-based sites retrieved
			from CODE
 LOCAL.CRD		Approximate ITRF coordinates of the other ground-based
			sites retrieved from various data sources
 MISC.CRD		Approximate ITRF coordinates of the unsure sites (not
			currently used)
 STATION.CRX		Skip list for problem station check
 DCB/BDS.DCB		Estimated BDS satellite DCBs
 DCB/DLR0MGXFIN*.BSX	GNSS DCBs for Galileo and others
 DCB/P1C1*_RINEX.DCB	GNSS DCBs for GPS/GLONASS (P1-C1)
 DCB/P1P2*_ALL.DCB	GNSS DCBs for GPS/GLONASS (P1-P2)
 DCB/STATION.DCB	GNSS DCBs for GPS/GLONASS/Galileo/Beidou

The associated files as below for testing:

 brdc3060.14g		Broadcast ephemeris for GLONASS
 COD18170.EPH		GPS and GLONASS orbit file from CODE, date 2014.306
 COD18775.EPH		GPS and GLONASS orbit file from CODE, date 2016.001
 gbm18775.sp3           GNSS orbit file from GFZ, date 2016.001
 hksl0010.16o		30-s sampling daily OBS file at HKSL, RINEX 3
 lpgs306a.14o    	1-s sampling hourly OBS file at MIZU, RINEX 2
 pgnsstec.m		GNSS-TEC parallel processor for Octave
 readbia_c.m		Read BIA file and retrieve DCB values for BDS
 run_gpstec1.pl		Auto-run script for GPS-TEC
 tash3060.14o    	30-s sampling daily OBS file at TASH, RINEX 2
 tum18170.sp3		Orbit file including Galileo from IGS, date 2014.306

Where crx2rnx() and hrcrx2rnx() need the additional program 'crx2rnx' to unpack
OBS files where the program can be downloaded at

 http://facility.unavco.org/software/preprocessing/preprocessing.html#hatanaka


PREPARATION

Before running the main script for GNSS data processing in GNU Octave or MATLAB
-compatible environments, users need to get at least an OBS file and an orbit
file ready as input.  For GLONASS, the broadcast ephermis file is necessary to
identify the frequency numbers.  At least a GNSS observation file (OBS) in
RINEX 2.00 format or later (RINEX 1.xx compatible for GPS and GLONASS) and a
GNSS orbit file in SP3 format are necessary to estimate the TEC values.  The
OBS file must be in name of SSSSDDDA.YYo, where SSSS is the site name (marker
name in 4-char), DDD is the 3-digit day of year (DOY), A is the fractional
index, YY is 2-digit year number.  The broadcast ephemeris file must be in name
of brdcDDD0.YYg.

The script, crx2rnx.m, converts one-day worth of zipped compact RINEX OBS files
in 30-second sampling into the ordinary RINEX OBS files.

Besides, the script, hrcrx2rnx.m, converts 15-minute worth of zipped compact
RINEX OBS files in one-second sampling into one-hour worth of RINEX files in
the specified sampling rate.

The GPS and GLONASS orbit files can be found at

 ftp://ftp.unibe.ch/aiub/CODE/YYYY/CODwwwwd.EPH.Z

or

 ftp://cddis.gsfc.nasa.gov/gps/products/wwww/ig[rs]wwwwd.sp3.Z

or

 ftp://cddis.gsfc.nasa.gov/gps/products/wwww/iguwwwwd_[00|06|12|18].sp3.Z

where the rapid SP3 files (igrwwwwd.sp3), precise SP3 files (CODwwwwd.EPH or
igswwwwd.sp3) or predicted SP3 files (iguwwwwd.sp3, renamed from
iguwwwwd_hh.sp3), are all acceptable.

The Galileo and BDS orbit files can be found at

 ftp://ftp.gfz-potsdam.de/GNSS/products/mgex/wwww/gbmwwwwd.sp3.Z

or

 ftp://ftp.gfz-potsdam.de/GNSS/products/mgex/wwww/gbuwwwwd_hh.sp3.Z

The Galileo orbit files can also be found at

 ftp://cddis.gsfc.nasa.gov/gnss/products/mgex/wwww/tumwwwwd.sp3.Z

Again, rename the predicted orbit file gbuwwwwd_hh.sp3 into gbuwwwwd.sp3
manually before use.

The broadcast ephemeris files can be found at

 ftp://cddis.gsfc.nasa.gov/glonass/data/daily/YYYY/DDD/YYg/brdcDDD0.YYg.Z

Make sure all of the input files are unzipped before use.

Besides, the coordinate files, CODE.CRD and LOCAL.CRD, contain approximate XYZ
positions of the sites.  CODE.CRD was retrieved from the University of Bern at:

 ftp://ftp.unibe.ch/aiub/BSWUSER50/STA/CODE.CRD

LOCAL.CRD was retrieved from CWB, Academia Sinica, New Zealand GeoNet, etc.
Users may add more information into it if not available.  The DCB files for GPS
and GLONASS were retrieved from CODE at the Unversity of Bern at

 ftp://ftp.unibe.ch/aiub/CODE/

The DCB files for Galileo can be found at

 ftp://cddis.gsfc.nasa.gov/pub/gps/products/mgex/dcb/YYYY/

or

 ftp://igs.ensg.ign.fr/pub/igs/products/mgex/dcb/YYYY/

For BDS, Estimated C1-C7 DCB values in BDS.DCB are read.  If the station DCB is
not found in those files, the daily data processing will estimate it
 automatically with spherical harmonics based on the daily data; otherwise,
STATION.DCB, which provides estimated station DCB values for hourly data
processing, is read.  Again, users may add more information into this file if
necessary.

For MATLAB users, since Octave has its own MAT format, you might need to add

 save_default_options('-7');

in your own $HOME/.octaverc beforehand for data exchange with MATLAB.


RUNNING GNSS-TEC

There are two types of syntax to process the GNSS data.  Run

 gpstec('SITE',Y,D,H,R,MINEL)

or

 gpstec('SITE',Y,D,[H1 H2],R,MINEL)

to process the GPS data, which reads in the daily or hourly GPS observation
files and the ephemeris files for site SITE, year Y, day of year D, hour H or
hour range [H1 H2], sampling rate R, and the cutoff elevation angle of the
satellites, MINEL, and then returns the vertical TEC (VTEC), the corresponding
elevation angle of the GPS satellites, longitude and latitude of the
ionospheric points.  For example, run

 gpstec('lpgs',2014,306,0,1,10)

to read in the OBS file, lpgs306a.14o, and the corresponding ephemeris file,
COD18170.EPH, igr18170.sp3, igs18170.sp3 or igu18170.sp3, and obtain VTEC for
date 2014.306, hour 0 (GPS time; an hour worth of the data), with one-second
sampling rate, 10-degree cutoff elevation angle.  Run

 gpstec('tash',2014,306,[0 24],30,20)

to read tash3060.14o and the corresponding ephemeris file (COD18170.EPH, for
example), and obtain VTEC for the same date, hours 0-24 (GPS time; one day
worth of the data) with 30-second sampling rate, 20-degree cutoff elevation
angle.  Similarly, run

 glotec('SITE',Y,D,H,R,MINEL)

or

 glotec('SITE',Y,D,[H1 H2],R,MINEL)

for GLONASS.  For example, run

 glotec('tash',2014,306,[0 24],30,20)

to read tash3060.14o, the corresponding ephemeris file (COD18170.EPH for
example) and the broadcast ephemeris file, brdc3060.14g, and then produces
the GLO-TEC data.

Run

 galtec('SITE',Y,D,H,R,MINEL)

or

 galtec('SITE',Y,D,[H1 H2],R,MINEL)

for Galileo.  For example, run

 galtec('tash',2014,306,[0 24],30,20)

to read tash3060.14o, the corresponding ephemeris file (gbm18170.sp3 for
example), and then produces the GAL-TEC data.

Run

 bdstec('SITE',Y,D,H,R,MINEL)

or

 bdstec('SITE',Y,D,[H1 H2],R,MINEL)

for BDS.  Besides, main scripts gpstec_sh.m, glotec_sh.m, galtec_sh.m and
bdstec_sh.m are used to execute in UNIX-like system.  For example, running

 gpstec_sh.m lpgs 2014 306 0 1 10

is almost the same as

 gpstec('lpgs',2014,306,0,1,10)

except for additional ASCII data output.  Running

 gpstec_sh.m tash 2014 306 0 24 30 20

is equilavent as gpstec('tash',2014,306,[0 24],30,20).

Data in RINEX 3.xx format is also acceptable.  For example, run

 gpstec('hksl',2016,1,[0 240],30,20)

to process GPS data in RINEX 3.02.


OUTPUT

At least six output files are created.  For the first example above,
COD18170i01.mat, COD18170.mat, lpgs306a.mat, lpgs306.mat, lpgs306.log,
LPGS_41510M001__.mat, P1C11411_RINEX.mat, and P1P21411_ALL.mat are created; for
the last example, COD18170i30.mat, COD18170.mat, P1C11411_RINEX.mat,
P1P21411_ALL.mat, TASH_12327M001__.mat, tash3060.mat, tash306.dat, tash306.log,
and tash306.mat are created.

All TEC are in TECU (1 TECU = 10^16 electrons m^(-2)); all of angles are in
degrees.

The minimum TEC value in the log file indicates the mean TEC value for 0400-
0430 local time (LT).

The first alphabets of the variables in the output MAT-file denote the data
types (see Table 1).  Each variable contains a matrix of thousands of epoches
in rows and 32 GPS or 26 GLONASS or 30 Galileo or 35 BDS satellites in columns.
For example, (1,2) stands for the first epoch and PRN2 (for GPS, Galileo and
BDS) or slot number 2 (for GLONASS).  Main scripts, gpstec_sh.m, glotec_sh.m,
galtec_sh.m and bdstec_sh.m additionally output ASCII data file with the suffix
.dat, for example, lpgs306.dat.

Table 1: Mnemonics of output data types (for MAT-file only).

    Mnemonics   Description
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
	a	Geographic latitude of ionospheric points
	e	Elevation angle of GNSS satellites with respect to the site
	o	Geographic longitude of ionospheric points
	s	Slant TEC at the receiver
	v	Vertical TEC at ionospheric points


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Dr. Sugar Lin at National Taiwan Ocean University contributes subroutines
NAVIGATION and SATPOSI for the old version of this program.  Dr. Shao-ju Shan
in Canada, Prof. Charles Lin at National Cheng-Kung University (NCKU), and
Ms. Tiffany Ho at Central Weather Bureau (CWB) provide valuable comments and
contribution on debugging.  Mr. Phil Huang at CWB helps to speed up the
performance of routines.  Mr. Min-Yang Chou at NCKU contributes the scripts for
station DCB estimate, BDS satellite DCB estimate, and parallel processing.


Author:		Ho-Fang Tsai
Address:	Department of Earth Sciences, National Cheng Kung University 
		No. 1, Daxue Rd., Tainan, Taiwan.
E-mail:		tsai@ncku.edu.tw

